well the US President Joe Biden as
you've been hearing has met with the
Israeli Prime Minister Benjamin
Netanyahu in Tel Aviv he supported
Israel's denial of involvement in that
attack on a hospital in Gaza Alan
Fischer brings us that
report it was a trip meant to help
deescalate the crisis in Gaza but it
began to unravel before Joe Biden even
touched down in Tel Aviv warm hugs to be
followed by tough questions said the
White House particularly on humanitarian
issues
but then there was a massacre at a Gaza
Hospital overshadowing everything the
Americans have ordered their own inquiry
into what happened but Joe Biden appears
to be endorsing Israeli denials I was
deeply saddened and outraged by the uh
explosion at the hospital in Gaza
yesterday and based on what I've seen it
appears as though it was done by the
other team not not you Joe Biden has
promised Israel what it needs to carry
out its offensive in Gaza Min support
clearly welcomed by the country's prime
minister with one eye on the American
audience on October
7th Hamas murdered 1,400 Israelis maybe
more this is in a country of fewer than
10 million people this would be
equivalent to over 50,000 Americans
murdered in a single day that's
2911 that is why October 7th is another
day that we live in infamy Jo Biden was
meant to leave here and meet with three
Arab leaders in Jordan but and an
extraordinary diplomatic snub they
essentially canceled angry that the US
president was not prepared to call for a
ceasefire but he did want to ring
concessions during his visit aware of
the growing anger at the rise in the
number of dead and the humanitarian
crisis in a final speech before leaving
after this extraordinary visit Joe Biden
revealed he' secured Israeli cooperation
for Aid to be allowed into Gaza working
in close cooperation with the government
of Egypt the United Nations and its
agencies like the world program and
other partners in the region to get
trucks moving across the border as soon
as
possible Joe Biden's unwavering support
for Israel has won many admirers here
but in the wider region there's concern
the US isn't using the influence it has
to do more to stop the assault in Gaza
and stop the number of dead from rising
Alan Fischer Al jazer Tel
Aviv well let's bring in Maan Bashar our
senior political analyst who joins us
from London Maran what did you make of
Biden's visit and and particularly his
choice of language that we saw on T
aiv well clearly first and foremost in
as far as his own politics and the one
back at home in the United States he
certainly went from embracing uh prime
minister Netanyahu uh emotionally and
politically to basically em embracing
him physically I think the idea of a hug
uh on on camera was quite important and
uh apparently it was very important for
the Prime Minister himself I mean I've
never seen him hug that closely and
clearly he needed the hug uh because it
was a a symbolic gesture that the
American president in in Israel when
Israel is at a state of War so I think
there was that and then there was the
idea that especially that he arrived
after the uh bombing of the uh Al
hospital and the the death of hundreds
that he had to start speaking more in
you know humanitarian terms and pay
maybe pay lip service to Palestinian
sufferings after uh he went on and on
and on in details about Israeli
suffering but be that as it may uh if
you add it all together I think the the
phrase we need to use today it's not
exactly fortunate one but it is what it
is is pyromaniac fireman in the sense
that the American president is nudging
supporting unconditionally Israel to
carry on with its
indiscriminate uh genocidal war in the
Gaza STP and at the same time he's
talking about avoiding the death of
civilians avoiding civilian suffering
and making sure that there is
humanitarian assistance and so forth and
I think just picking on what Alan Fisher
said I think that has been convincing
for the Israelis but it has not be
convincing for much of the Arab world
well speaking of which Biden was also
supposed to be meeting with Arab leaders
in Aman right but that was all cancelled
that meeting was meant to I understand
create the basis for a further Summit in
Egypt on the weekend so what
now I think that's as an important uh
turnabout or as uh President Biden likes
to say all the time it was an infliction
point for the us and for the region
something happened uh yesterday and and
clearly If October 7 was a was an
important date October 17 was another
important date in the sense of the
change of mood in the Arab world and the
change of mood on the Arab Street and
the anger and the solidarity with the
Palestinian struggle and Palestinian
suffering that certainly put a lot of
heat and pressure on Arab leaders and I
think it left first the Palestinian
leader with no other option but to walk
away and get back to ramala where things
were basically falling apart and then
the Jordanian and the Egyptian leaders
also decided that you know what I mean
we are dependent on uh American
assistance yes we are on the payroll but
you know what we can't afford it we have
to take a stand and they did take a
stand now just to be clear that stand
was simply to say we're going to cancel
that Summit because the circumcise does
doesn't help but none of them closed an
Israeli Embassy none of them recalled uh
uh you know ambassador from Israel and
none of them certainly cut any relations
with Israel well meanwhile Maran there
are obvious fears in the International
Community of escalation right I I want
to ask you about a comment that the
Palestinian Ambassador made in the
security Council today that this is a
war that could shape the next 10 years
in your mind what could that look
like well I think it's a bit of what we
talked about uh from day one which is
there's supposed to be a consensus
around it I think Israel's declaration
of war and its decision to now carry on
what 12 days of bombing uh of the Gaza
Strip mostly indiscriminant where we
have thousands of deaths and tens of
thousands of casualties in this war that
Israel has decided to launch against
this densely populated area was going to
lead sooner or later especially if a
land Invasion starts to uh the kind of
urban Warfare that we haven't seen since
the second world war in the sense that
uh there will probably be tens of
thousands more like hundreds of
thousands of casualties and probably the
Israelis will also uh incur some
casualties as well if they go in uh all
the way so clearly that's going to be
you know a
major tragic War uh whereby I'm not sure
there's going to be winners and losers
and even when Israel does it it does you
know occupy there is no end game after
that and that's why the American
president advised the the Israelis that
it would be a big mistake for them to
occupy so here we are now on the logic
of indiscriminate bombing it just goes
on and on and mistakes now are done
failures are done and we're having the
logic of uh you know too many people uh
dying in war as if they are sort of you
know uh casual by mistake when in fact
the Israelis have made it clear that at
least the Israeli president has made it
clear that there are no innocent people
in Gaza and that they are all
responsible hence there's an intent
behind what a massacre becomes a
genoside alir senior political analyst
Maan bashara sharing those thoughts from
London thanks for joining us again
maram